Before:
If you live in an area at high risk for tornadoes, consider building a safe room in your home. A safe room must be able to withstand high winds and flying debris. The Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) provides free plans for building a safe room in your basement or by reinforcing a bedroom closet or bathroom. You can download safe room information and plans on FEMA’s website.
Pack an emergency preparedness kit that will meet the needs of you and your family for three days. The kit, of course, will be handy in the wake of any natural or man-made disaster. An emergency preparedness kit needs to include food and water for each member of your family for three days, a battery-powered or hand-crank radio, flashlight, spare batteries, first aid kit, can opener, local maps, moist towelettes, toilet paper, garbage bags and plastic ties for personal sanitation. Other items to consider include sleeping bags or blankets, paper towels, books, puzzles and games for children and pet food for family pets. FEMA has a complete list of recommended items for an emergency kit online.
Buy a NOAA weather radio and keep it on your nightstand. The radio will sound a loud alert when the National Weather Service issues a tornado warning for your area. This should give you time to gather your family in the safest spot in the house.
Be alert for threatening weather. Look for the following danger signs: dark, greenish sky, large hail, a large, dark, rotating cloud, a loud roar.


During:
Go to the lowest and smallest room
Get under something sturdy or in a hallway.
Get away from windows.
Cover yourself from blankets, pillows and coats to protect you from debris. If you have a bike helmet available, put it on.
Crouch as low as possible to the floor.
A bathtub may also offer a shell of partial protection.

After:
Be alert to hazards created by tornado damage such gas leaks, broken glass and exposed electrical wiring.
Check for injuries, but don’t try to move someone who is seriously injured unless they are in immediate danger of death or further injury.
